The President:
Back in January, in my State of the Union Address,
I warned of the danger posed by
a Supreme Court ruling called
Citizens United.
This decision overturned
decades of law and precedent.
It gave the special interests
the power to spend without limit
-- and without public disclosure --
to run ads in order to influence elections.
Now, as an election approaches,
it's not just a theory.
We can see for ourselves how
destructive to our democracy
this can become.
We've seen it in the flood of
deceptive attack ads sponsored
by special interests using front
groups with misleading names.
We don't know who's behind these
ads or who's paying for them.
Even foreign-controlled
corporations seeking to
influence our democracy are able
to spend freely in order to
swing an election toward
a candidate they prefer.
We've tried to fix
this with a new law --
one that would simply require
that you say who you are and
who's paying for your ad.
This way, voters are able to
make an informed judgment about
a group's motivations.
Anyone running these ads would
have to stand by their claims.
And foreign-controlled
corporations would be restricted
from spending money to
influence elections,
just as they were before the
Supreme Court opened up this loophole.
This is common sense.
In fact, this is the kind of
proposal that Democrats and
Republicans have
agreed on for decades.
Yet, the Republican leaders in
Congress have so far said "no."
They've blocked this bill from
even coming up for a vote in the Senate.
It's politics at its worst.
But it's not hard
to understand why.
Over the past two years, we've fought back against the
entrenched special interests -- weakening their hold on the
levers of power in Washington.
We've taken a stand against
the worst abuses of the
financial industry and the
health insurance companies.
We've rolled back tax breaks
for companies that ship jobs overseas.
And we've restored enforcement
of common sense rules to protect
clean air and clean water.
In other words, we've refused to go along with business as usual.
Now, the special interests
want to take Congress back,
and return to the days when
lobbyists wrote the laws.
And a partisan minority in
Congress is hoping their defense
of these special interests and
the status quo will be rewarded
with a flood of negative ads
against their opponents.
It's a power grab,
pure and simple.
They're hoping they can ride
this wave of unchecked influence
all the way to victory.
What's clear is that Congress
has a responsibility to act.
But the truth is, any law will
probably come too late to
prevent the damage that's already been done this election season.
And that's why, any time you see
an attack ad by one of these
shadowy groups, you
should ask yourself,
who is paying for this ad?
Is it the health
insurance lobby?
The oil industry?
The credit card companies?
More than that, you can make sure that the tens of millions
of dollars spent on misleading
ads don't drown out your voice.
Because no matter how
many ads they run --
no matter how many elections
they try to buy --
the power to determine the fate
of this country doesn't lie in their hands.
It lies in yours.
It's up to all of us to defend
that most basic American
principle of a government
of, by, and for the people.
What's at stake is
not just an election.
It's our democracy itself.
Thanks.